---
title: OpenStack, getting started
slug: temp-slug-30
date_published: 1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z
date_updated:   2014-09-06T16:30:34.000Z
draft: true
---


In the big family of cloud / virtualization solutions, there are proprietary solutions such as VMware vSphere or Microsoft Hyper-V and open source product such as KVM, QEMU, OpenVZ, etc. Today we will take a closer look at OpenStack which is pretty big right now.

First of all, OpenStack is not technically a virtualization product, it is a project first launched by NASA and Rackspace and which is composed of several components such as Nova for example which allows running virtual machines.

In fact OpenStack is a lot of things and it is split into multiples bricks that you may use depending on your architecture requirements :

- Nova : Manage virtual machines instances: running, stopping, snapshot etc.
- Keystone : Identity management, it is the cornerstone of OpenStack, each service needs to be registered into Keystone. It provides authentication, roles management, users, groups, across services.
- Swift : Provide object oriented storage. May be use as a standalone component.
- Cinder : Provide block storage for virtual machine instances.
- Neutron : Network Management, previously called Quantum. Allow network provisioning, VLAN, firewall, VPN, LB. It provides layer 2 and 3 connectivity.
- Glances : Manages instances images and templates.
- Horizon : Management web interfaces.

### Instances vs Virtual machines

We are talking more and more about instances to refers to virtual machines. Technicaly it is the same thing but there is a philophical difference between the two.

A virtual machine is a virtual server, it’s goal is to run 24/7 with an availability near 100%. An instance as time to live. It created then destroyes.

Why destroy an instance ? Because high availability and scalability, both arguments of classical virtualization, are not assured by an instance but by a group of instance: a cluster. The scaling is horizontal and not vertical, instead of upgrading RAM and CPU of a virtual machine, another instance is deployed and added to the existing cluster. Often, the deployed instance is a blank instance which is then configured via orchestration and automation solution such as Chef, Puppet or Salt (There are others out there).

Applications data are not linked to instances ( they only provide compute resources) and can be terminated without risk. Therefore, it is easy to scale up and down depending on the load of the application

From a technical point of view, there is a slight difference, an instances is created from a template

D’un point de vue technique, il y a une légère différence cependant. Une instance est créée à partir d’un gabarit (« AMI » chez AWS, « flavor » chez OpenStack) . Bien que l’on puisse aussi créer des VM à partir de templates chez VMware, une instance est toujours créée à partir d’un existant chez OpenStack, un gabarit, un snapshot, un  volume etc.

 



